 Markdown Note-Taking REST API

A robust backend REST API built with Node.js and Express for managing, parsing, and analyzing Markdown notes.

This project goes beyond basic CRUD operations by implementing direct file system interactions, secure multipart file uploads, dynamic text rendering, and third-party API integration.

✨ Core Features

Direct Text Saving: Accepts raw markdown via JSON and securely writes it to the server's local file system with uniquely generated UUID filenames to prevent collisions.

Multipart File Uploads: Allows clients to upload existing .md files using multer.

Security Filtering: Actively intercepts incoming file uploads and rejects non-Markdown or malicious file types.

Dynamic HTML Rendering: Reads saved .md files and parses them into browser-ready HTML on the fly using the marked library.

Automated Grammar Checking: Acts as a client to securely pass note text to the LanguageTool API, returning grammar and spelling analysis to the user.

🛠️ Tech Stack

Runtime: Node.js (ES Modules)

Framework: Express.js

File Uploads: Multer (DiskStorage Engine)

Markdown Parsing: Marked

External Integration: Native Node fetch API

🚀 Getting Started

Prerequisites

Make sure you have Node.js installed on your machine.

Installation

Clone this repository.

Initialize the project and install dependencies:

npm install express dotenv multer marked


Ensure your package.json includes "type": "module".

Create a .env file in the root directory and add your port:

PORT=8000


Running the Server

Start the server using Node or Nodemon:

node server.js


Note: The server will automatically create a local notes/ directory to store your files upon starting.

🛣️ API Endpoints

Method

Endpoint

Description

Body / Payload

POST

/notes

Creates a new note from raw text.

{ "note": "# Your markdown here" }

POST

/notes/upload

Uploads an existing .md file.

multipart/form-data (key: markdown_file)

GET

/notes/:filename/html

Returns the rendered HTML version of a saved note.

URL Parameter: filename

GET

/notes/:filename/grammar

Analyzes a note and returns grammar/spelling issues.

URL Parameter: filename

🔮 Future Evolutions

This project is structured as a foundational backend. Planned future enhancements include:

Migrating local file storage to a Cloud Bucket (AWS S3 / Cloudinary).

Connecting a database (MongoDB/PostgreSQL) to store note metadata (authors, tags, timestamps).

Implementing JWT authentication for private user accounts.

Building a full-stack frontend interface using React.